features/OpenaProjectFolder.rst, before:

Open a Project Folder
=====================

When you want to start working in Forge, you will first need to open a
project folder (i.e. the working directory containing your profiles).
When you select an item from your recent documents, Forge will
automatically open its associated project folder. In any other case
click ``Open FHIR Project Folder...`` and select your working directory.

.. figure:: ../images/OpenFolder.png
   :alt: Open a folder in Forge
   :scale: 75%

Note that although Forge allows you to select any folder, it would be a
very bad idea to select a general folder like
**C:\Documents** as your project folder. If you are
managing multiple projects it is good practice to organize all of your
projects under the same parent folder: for example **FHIR**. If you
don’t have a specific folder for your project, please create one. For
example, let’s open my project folder called **MyForgeProject**.
By default subdirectories are not included. Select this option to
include all subdirectories of the selected folder. This may be
convenient if you want to organize your profiles in separate folders,
but still want to be able to edit them in the same project. On the other
hand, if you have a subdirectory containing old versions of your
profiles, it would be better to ignore the subdirectory.

.. figure:: ../images/SelectFolder.png
   :alt: Select a folder in Forge

Click ``Select Folder`` to open your folder. Now Forge will show you all
files contained in your folder.

.. figure:: ../images/SessionExplorer.png
   :alt: The session explorer in Forge

When there’s a lot of content in your folder, you may want to use one of
the available filters:

-  Resource type (e.g. StructureDefinition)
-  Structure category (e.g. profile or extension)
-  Structure type (e.g. Patient).

.. figure:: ../images/ProjectFilter.png
   :alt: The project filter in Forge

You can also switch views. By default the ``List`` view is shown,
showing all content in the folder and all its subdirectories (when these
are included). The ``Folders`` view allows you to browse the
subdirectories one by one as if you’re using your file explorer.

.. figure:: ../images/ProjectView.png
   :alt: The project view in Forge

Select one of the structure definitions from the content list and choose
``Open`` to open it in Forge. Choose ``New...`` to add new structure
definitions to your project. Note that they will not be saved
automatically. To add a newly created structure definition to your
project, select ``Save`` and save it to your project folder. The new
file is autmatically added to the content list.

In the Session Explorer, you can choose ``Open...`` to open another
project folder. Note that this will not automatically close your current
project folder. To close a project folder, select the folder in the
Session Explorer and select ``Close``. Or select a single item in your
project to close.

Commit message:

Updated 'Open a Project Folder' with Simplifier reference and updated paragraph on subfolder inclusion.

features/OpenaProjectFolder.rst, after:

Open a Project Folder
=====================

When you want to start working in Forge, you will first need to open a
project folder (i.e. the working directory containing your profiles).

When you select an item from your recent documents, Forge will
automatically open its associated project folder. 

.. attention:: When you already have a project on **Simplifier.net** or you want to start using Simplifier for your FHIR projects then read the chapter :ref:`integration-with-simplifier` first. 


Click ``Open FHIR Project Folder...`` and select your working directory.

.. figure:: ../images/OpenFolder.png
   :alt: Open a folder in Forge
   :scale: 75%

Note that although Forge allows you to select any folder, it would be a
very bad idea to select a general folder like
**C:\Documents** as your project folder. If you are
managing multiple projects it is good practice to organize all of your
projects under the same parent folder: for example **FHIR**.

If you don’t have a specific folder for your project, please create one. For
example, let’s open my project folder called **MyForgeProject**.
By default subdirectories are included. 

Deselect the option if you want to exclude all subdirectories of the selected folder. This may be
convenient if you have a subdirectory containing old versions of your
profiles. In that case it would be better to ignore the subdirectory.

.. figure:: ../images/SelectFolder.png
   :alt: Select a folder in Forge

Click ``Select Folder`` to open your folder. Now Forge will show you all
files contained in your folder.

.. figure:: ../images/SessionExplorer.png
   :alt: The session explorer in Forge

When there’s a lot of content in your folder, you may want to use one of
the available filters:

-  Resource type (e.g. StructureDefinition)
-  Structure category (e.g. profile or extension)
-  Structure type (e.g. Patient).

.. figure:: ../images/ProjectFilter.png
   :alt: The project filter in Forge

You can also switch views. By default the ``List`` view is shown,
showing all content in the folder and all its subdirectories (when these
are included). The ``Folders`` view allows you to browse the
subdirectories one by one as if you’re using your file explorer.

.. figure:: ../images/ProjectView.png
   :alt: The project view in Forge

Select one of the structure definitions from the content list and choose
``Open`` to open it in Forge. Choose ``New...`` to add new structure
definitions to your project. Note that they will not be saved
automatically. To add a newly created structure definition to your
project, select ``Save`` and save it to your project folder. The new
file is autmatically added to the content list.

In the Session Explorer, you can choose ``Open...`` to open another
project folder. Note that this will not automatically close your current
project folder. To close a project folder, select the folder in the
Session Explorer and select ``Close``. Or select a single item in your
project to close.
