features/R4BDependencies.rst, before:

.. _r4b-package-dependencies:

Adding R4B dependencies to your project
=======================================

Forge uses Simplifier as a package registery when looking for packages. As Simplifier does not currently support R4B, it is not possible to add R4B packages 
via the normal route. Luckily there is a workaround allowing these packages to be used as dependencies in Forge. For this you can follow these steps:

1. Download the `R4B package <https://hl7.org/fhir/R4B/downloads.html>`__ of your interest, in this example we will take the **hl7.fhir.r4b.core#4.3.0** package.
2. In your downloads folder, extract the resulting **tgz** file using "extract here". You will get a **tar** file in the downloads folder with the same name as  
   the **tgz** file. After this extract the **tar file**, again using the "extract here" option. You will end up with a folder named **package**.

   .. figure:: ../images/unpacking_tgz.png
      :scale: 80%
3. Rename the package folder to the package name: **hl7.fhir.r4b.core#4.3.0**
4. Copy the package folder to the following directory **C:\\Users\\<USERNAME>\\.fhir\\packages** where **<USERNAME>** is your user name.
5. Within this folder, make sure all files that are not yet in subfolders are added to a subfolder named **package**.
    
   **Before:**

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_no_package_folder.png
      :scale: 80%
    
   **After:**

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_package_folder.png
      :scale: 80%

6. In your Forge project folder add a file named **package.json**. Add your own **name** and **description** reflecting your project. It should roughly have the following content:
    
   ::

        {
            "name": "MyR4BProject",
            "version": "0.1.0",
            "description": "My R4B project",
            "dependencies": {
                "hl7.fhir.r4b.core": "4.3.0"
            },
            "fhirVersions": [
                "4.3.0"
            ]
        }

7. Restart Forge and have a look at your dependency tab, your package should be listed there:

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_dependencytab.png

Installing packages with Firely Terminal
----------------------------------------

It is also possible to use Firely Terminal to install packages. While Firely Terminal also uses Simplifier as a package repository when looking for packages, 
it is able to install packages from local **tgz** files as well. Using Firely Terminal, the package tgz is automatically extracted with the correct name and 
folder structure and a **package.json** is also automatically generated for your project. For more information you can check out 
our `documentation on Firely Terminal <https://docs.fire.ly/projects/Firely-Terminal/Managing-Packages.html#install-a-file>`__.

Commit message:

Added attention message to R4B dependencies page.

features/R4BDependencies.rst, after:

.. _r4b-package-dependencies:

Adding R4B dependencies to your project
=======================================

.. Attention:: The information on this page is now obsolete because Simplifier supports R4B and R5 and thus dependencies can be added from within Forge.
   However the information on this page is still relevant if you want to install packages manually.

Forge uses Simplifier as a package registery when looking for packages. As Simplifier does not currently support R4B, it is not possible to add R4B packages 
via the normal route. Luckily there is a workaround allowing these packages to be used as dependencies in Forge. For this you can follow these steps:

1. Download the `R4B package <https://hl7.org/fhir/R4B/downloads.html>`__ of your interest, in this example we will take the **hl7.fhir.r4b.core#4.3.0** package.
2. In your downloads folder, extract the resulting **tgz** file using "extract here". You will get a **tar** file in the downloads folder with the same name as  
   the **tgz** file. After this extract the **tar file**, again using the "extract here" option. You will end up with a folder named **package**.

   .. figure:: ../images/unpacking_tgz.png
      :scale: 80%
3. Rename the package folder to the package name: **hl7.fhir.r4b.core#4.3.0**
4. Copy the package folder to the following directory **C:\\Users\\<USERNAME>\\.fhir\\packages** where **<USERNAME>** is your user name.
5. Within this folder, make sure all files that are not yet in subfolders are added to a subfolder named **package**.
    
   **Before:**

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_no_package_folder.png
      :scale: 80%
    
   **After:**

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_package_folder.png
      :scale: 80%

6. In your Forge project folder add a file named **package.json**. Add your own **name** and **description** reflecting your project. It should roughly have the following content:
    
   ::

        {
            "name": "MyR4BProject",
            "version": "0.1.0",
            "description": "My R4B project",
            "dependencies": {
                "hl7.fhir.r4b.core": "4.3.0"
            },
            "fhirVersions": [
                "4.3.0"
            ]
        }

7. Restart Forge and have a look at your dependency tab, your package should be listed there:

   .. figure:: ../images/r4b_dependencytab.png

Installing packages with Firely Terminal
----------------------------------------

It is also possible to use Firely Terminal to install packages. While Firely Terminal also uses Simplifier as a package repository when looking for packages, 
it is able to install packages from local **tgz** files as well. Using Firely Terminal, the package tgz is automatically extracted with the correct name and 
folder structure and a **package.json** is also automatically generated for your project. For more information you can check out 
our `documentation on Firely Terminal <https://docs.fire.ly/projects/Firely-Terminal/Managing-Packages.html#install-a-file>`__.
